# README - RE3 (Reproducibility, Reusability, Readability)

## Overview

An essential part of research and scientific communication is the researchers’ ability to reproduce results found in other publications. While there have been increasing standards for authors to make data and code available, many of these files are hard to re-execute in practice, leading to a lack of research reproducibility. This poses a major problem for enthusiastic students and researchers in the same field who cannot leverage the previously published findings. We propose an open-source platform that helps improve the reproducibility and readability of research projects involving R code. Our service includes assessing code readability with a machine learning model trained on a code readability survey deployed on the platform and an automatic containerization service that executes the code files uploaded by the user and warns them of any reproducibility errors. By doing this, researchers would ensure the reproducibility and readability of their projects and therefore fast-track their verification and reuse.

## Access our platform here

[re3.ai](https://re3.ai)

## Structure

Our platform is structured into 4 main parts:
Readability - train and deploy machine learning readability model.
Reproducibility - Automatic containerization of user uploaded research projects.
Front End - React code and styling.
Back-End - Firebase (storage, firestore, authentication)

### Readability

All code related to our readability model is located in the directory `Re3-readability/`.

The `Re3-readability/` directory contains:
‘data/’
‘notebooks/’
‘models/’
‘flask_api/’
‘src/’

The readability structure is pretty simple. We separated the project into ‘data/’, ‘notebooks/’, ‘models/’, ‘flask_api/’, ‘data/’, ‘src/’. If one wants to analyze or modify any of the data, then they should head to the data folder. This is where we store the structural features of our code snippets and user survey ratings. The notebooks folder contains jupyter notebooks to create ml models, analyze data, and useful figures. In the models folder, we store all the models generated by the notebooks. In the src folder, we do the data fetching from the database. Although this folder is open sourced, it will not be of any use to others because it requires the database keys which we need to keep private for the purposes of security. The flask_api folder contains the server where the readability model is called from the front end and the code suggestion model as well.

### Reproducibility

All code related to our reproducibility aspect of the project is located in the directory `docker-app/`.

The important files in `Re3-readability/` folder includes:
‘ReproducibilityProjects/’
‘Dependencies.txt’
‘Dockerfile’
‘execute_files.py’
‘requirements.txt’

‘ReproducibilityProjects/’ contains the 3 Dataverse projects that were used to test the reproducibility platform. ‘Dependencies.txt’ contains the information needed to successfully reproduce the 3 files. ‘Dockerfile’, as the name suggests is the dockerfile that is used for building and the docker container for the research projects using the specified R version and the list of dependencies. ‘execute_files.py’ executes the R files in the order specified by the user. ‘requirements.txt’ installs all the dependencies.

### Front-End

The front-end is a React web application. It uses the Firebase JavaScript library to help with connecting to the Firebase services we use such as authentication, database, and file storage. We also use the React Router library for defining routes within our application so that the endpoints host different web pages across the application. This React application is bundled and hosted using Firebase hosting, a process that is automated using GitHub actions.

### Firebase Overview

The RE3 platform is developed on the Google Firebase. It is an application development software that provides tools for tracking analytics, web hosting, debugging, and product experiments. For file storage and database services, we use Cloud Storage for Firebase and Cloud Firestore, respectively. Firestore, which is a NoSQL database native to the Google ecosystem, captures the metadata of all files and projects on the platform. We also make use of google authentication in order to register users on our platform.

#### Containers

Every project that gets submitted to the reproducibility platform gets stored inside this collection. Each document inside the containers collection stores:

- the URL to the relevant files stored in the storage
- The author’s name
- Build Logs
- Date the project was submitted on
- dataLicense
- Relevant keywords
- Readability scores of the submitted files
- Build status
- Title of the research project
- userID
- R version used
- List of dependencies

#### Users

The information of every user that takes our readability survey gets stored inside this collection. Each document inside the Users collection stores:

- The survey taker’s education background
- Course level
- The current snippet the user needs to rate
- email
- Years of coding experience
- Familiarity with R
- Gender
- a boolean variable to keep track if the user is onboarded.
- Ratings of the snippets

## Potential Future Work

- Add a dashboard to allow users to view all projects posted to the platform.
- Consider expanding our readability to include other programming languages such as Python and Java

## Contributors

- [Andreas Francisco De Melo Oliveira](https://github.com/andoliv1)
- [Ethan Hung](https://github.com/ehungbu)
- [Jyotsna Penumaka](https://github.com/jyotsna-penumaka)
- [Layan Bahaidarah](https://github.com/layanb98)
- [Lukas Rosario](https://github.com/lukasrosario)
- [Ana Trisovic](https://github.com/atrisovic)
